
2- 6,8,9,12,13,14,16,17,18(may be),19,20,23,24,25-30,37,38

Operating System Interview Question
A list of top frequently asked Operating System interview questions and answers are given below.

1) What is an operating system?
The operating system is a software program that facilitates computer hardware to communicate and operate with the computer software. It is the most important part of a computer system without it computer is just like a box.

2) What is the main purpose of an operating system?
There are two main purposes of an operating system:

It is designed to make sure that a computer system performs well by managing its computational activities.
It provides an environment for the development and execution of programs.

3) What are the different operating systems?
Batched operating systems
Distributed operating systems
Timesharing operating systems
Multi-programmed operating systems
Real-time operating systems

4) What is a socket?
A socket is used to make connection between two applications. Endpoints of the connection are called socket.

5) What is a real-time system?
Real-time system is used in the case when rigid-time requirements have been placed on the operation of a processor. It contains a well defined and fixed time constraints.

6) What is kernel?
Kernel is the core and most important part of a computer operating system which provides basic services for all parts of the OS.
8) What do you mean by a process?
An executing program is known as process. There are two types of processes:

Operating System Processes
User Processes

9) What are the different states of a process?
A list of different states of process:

New Process
Running Process
Waiting Process
Ready Process
Terminated Process


12) What is the difference between process and program?
A program while running or executing is known as a process.

13) What is the use of paging in operating system?
Paging is used to solve the external fragmentation problem in operating system. This technique ensures that the data you need is available as quickly as possible.

14) What is the concept of demand paging?
Demand paging specifies that if an area of memory is not currently being used, it is swapped to disk to make room for an application's need.


or kya krna h abi?
memory leak padh lo bahut puchte hai
in os?
java me hota hai 
saearccch h
a

thoda sa bta do..
ok
dekho 
some times in java when there are so manty objects 
ek min
k
ufff
dekho when the there are tooo many object and its not being used but have valid refernce then java ka garnage collector isko valid samajhta hai
and cant destroy it 
these not being used objects are called as the memory leak
ok
aaya
haok good
bs yhi h isme?ha 
or isme scnerio b to puche h us pankaj ki mail me
achcha to isko os ke terms me bhi dekhna padgeega

ye padho same hai but here objecr is kind of applucation
read
ok

A memory leak is the gradual loss of available computer memory when a program (an application or part of the operating system) repeatedly fails to return memory that it has obtained for temporary use. As a result, the available memory for that application or that part of the operating system becomes exhausted and the program can no longer function. For a program that is frequently opened or called or that runs continuously, even a very small memory leak can eventually cause the program or the system to terminate. A memory leak is the result of a program bug
ok

16) What is virtual memory?
Virtual memory is a very useful memory management technique which enables processes to execute outside of memory. This technique is especially used when an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory.

17) What is thrashing?
Thrashing is a phenomenon in virtual memory scheme when the processor spends most of its time in swapping pages, rather than executing instructions.

18) What are the four necessary and sufficient conditions behind the deadlock?
These are the 4 conditions:

1) Mutual Exclusion Condition: It specifies that the resources involved are non-sharable.

2) Hold and Wait Condition: It specifies that there must be a process that is holding a resource already allocated to it while waiting for additional resource that are currently being held by other processes.

3) No-Preemptive Condition: Resources cannot be taken away while they are being used by processes.

4) Circular Wait Condition: It is an explanation of the second condition. It specifies that the processes in the system form a circular list or a chain where each process in the chain is waiting for a resource held by next process in the chain.

19) What is a thread?
A thread is a basic unit of CPU utilization. It consists of a thread ID, program counter, register set and a stack.

20) What is FCFS?
FCFS stands for First Come, First Served. It is a type of scheduling algorithm. In this scheme, if a process requests the CPU first, it is allocated to the CPU first. Its implementation is managed by a FIFO queue.

23) What is deadlock? Explain.
Deadlock is a specific situation or condition where two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start. But this situation causes hang for both of them.

24) Which are the necessary conditions to achieve a deadlock?
There are 4 necessary conditions to achieve a deadlock:

Mutual Exclusion: At least one resource must be held in a non-sharable mode. If any other process requests this resource, then that process must wait for the resource to be released.
Hold and Wait: A process must be simultaneously holding at least one resource and waiting for at least one resource that is currently being held by some other process.
No preemption: Once a process is holding a resource ( i.e. once its request has been granted ), then that resource cannot be taken away from that process until the process voluntarily releases it.
Circular Wait: A set of processes { P0, P1, P2, . . ., PN } must exist such that every P[ i ] is waiting for P[ ( i + 1 ) % ( N + 1 ) ].
Note: This condition implies the hold-and-wait condition, but it is easier to deal with the conditions if the four are considered separately.

25) What is Banker's algorithm?

Banker's algorithm is used to avoid deadlock. It is the one of deadlock-avoidance method. It is named as Banker's algorithm on the banking system where bank never allocates available cash in such a manner that it can no longer satisfy the requirements of all of its customers.

26) What is the difference between logical address space and physical address space?
Logical address space specifies the address that is generated by CPU. On the other hand physical address space specifies the address that is seen by the memory unit.

27) What is fragmentation?
Fragmentation is a phenomenon of memory wastage. It reduces the capacity and performance because space is used inefficiently.

28) How many types of fragmentation occur in Operating System?
There are two types of fragmentation:

Internal fragmentation: It is occurred when we deal with the systems that have fixed size allocation units.
External fragmentation: It is occurred when we deal with systems that have variable-size allocation units.
29) What is spooling?
Spooling is a process in which data is temporarily gathered to be used and executed by a device, program or the system. It is associated with printing. When different applications send output to the printer at the same time, spooling keeps these all jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer.

30) What is the difference between internal commands and external commands?
Internal commands are the built-in part of the operating system while external commands are the separate file programs that are stored in a separate folder or directory.


37) What is the difference between logical and physical address space?
Logical address specifies the address which is generated by the CPU whereas physical address specifies to the address which is seen by the memory unit.

After fragmentation

38) What are overlays?
Overlays makes a process to be larger than the amount of memory allocated to it. It ensures that only important instructions and data at any given time are kept in memory.